README.md, before:

# nyc_open_data

## Overview

The purpose of this project is to empower you to
- create your own copy of NYC Open Data
- create and share ETL workflows with the NYC civic tech community
- explore NYC Open Data and your ETL output with open source BI solutions

## Local Setup

Please read the [local setup guide](docs/LOCAL_SETUP.md) for instructions on how to run the project's rails app locally.

## Core Concepts

Please read the [core concepts document](docs/CORE_CONCEPTS.md) to learn about the main technologies we are leveraging.

## Create Your Own Copy of NYC Open Data

Create your own copy of NYC Open Data with Ruby on Rails and Postgres.

The [nyc open data document](docs/YOUR_NYC_OPEN_DATA.md) provides instructions on how to run the ruby code that pulls datasets from the NYC Open Data portal and into your own Postgres instance.

## Create and Share ETL Workflows with the NYC Civic Tech Community

TODO

## Explore NYC Open Data and Your ETL Output with Open Source BI Solutions

TODO

## Production Deployments

TODO

## Contributing

TODO

Commit message:

add an overview with code example

README.md, after:

# nyc_open_data

The purpose of this project is to empower you to
- create your own copy of NYC Open Data
- create and share ETL workflows with the NYC civic tech community
- explore NYC Open Data and your ETL output with open source BI solutions

## Overview

The project is a Ruby on Rails app with a Postgres database.

Each dataset is represented as an ActiveRecord model.

Create the database.

```
bundle exec rake db:create
```

Run migrations.

```
bundle exec rake db:migrate
```

Import a dataset.

```
DepartmentOfTransportation::BicycleCounter.import
```

You now have your own copy of the bicycle counter dataset!

## Local Setup

The [local setup guide](docs/LOCAL_SETUP.md) provides detailed instructions on how to run the rails app locally.

## Core Concepts

The [core concepts document](docs/CORE_CONCEPTS.md) details the main technologies we are leveraging.

## Create Your Own Copy of NYC Open Data

Create your own copy of NYC Open Data with Ruby on Rails and Postgres.

The [nyc open data document](docs/YOUR_NYC_OPEN_DATA.md) provides instructions on how to run the ruby code that pulls datasets from the NYC Open Data portal and into your own Postgres instance.

## Create and Share ETL Workflows with the NYC Civic Tech Community

TODO

## Explore NYC Open Data and Your ETL Output with Open Source BI Solutions

TODO

## Production Deployments

TODO

## Contributing

TODO
